♪ [music] ♪
All right, now we're
going to be working
with this Top page, this is the answer
that I've got here, and we're going to get
the list of top 10 stores based on their
average rating. So, huh, this is going to
get a little bit complex because how do
you query stores based on something that
each store doesn't even have?
We have reviews and we have
stores, and they're kind of
related because we have those fields, but
we don't actually have the data of reviews
in the stores. So what we need to do, and
this is a perfect use case for an
aggregation. Remember, an aggregation is
what you use in MongoDB whenever you need
to do either multi-stepped or very complex
queries. So in this case, we want to grab
a list of all of our stores, populate
their ratings, and then find out what the
average rating of that
actual store is.
But then, I also don't want
to show stores that only
have one rating because one person could
rate it five stars and they go right to
the top, right? So let's open up our...or
let's go back to our actual application
here, click on Top, we get a 404. So
we'll go to our index, search as, and
we'll make a route for that top.
So, go down to here. So
router.get/top, and when that
happens, we are going to catch the errors
and we'll use our storeController
getTopStores, okay? And we'll open up
our storeController here,
go down to the bottom.
exports.getTopStores = async.
Request response. I feel really sad, this
is the last method we're going to be
building together, and then you're
a little butterfly out on your own.
So here we go. So we're going to say
const stores = ...oh, wait,
Store dot...what do I do here? Find? No,
no. What we're going to do is we're going
to make up a new method called getTop
Stores, then we're going to render out a
TopStores.pug file, then the stores are
going to be passed and the title is going
to be "Top Stores!"
Okay, so this getTopStores
right here, how do we actually do that?
Well, as a general rule of thumb, any time
I have a complex query,
it's not great to do that inside of your
controller. It's best to put that on the
model itself. It's fine to do like a find,
and you have a couple little queries here
and there, but whenever we're going to get
into like seven, eight lines of querying
in our aggregation, I like to stick that
in my model. Keep it as close to the model
as you can without making it a rule that
you follow blindly.
So we'll open up our store model,
store.js, and we'll go down to the bottom.
You see here, we have storeSchema.statics
that didn't get TagsList.
That's exactly what we're going to be
doing, but we're going to be getting one
called getTopStores. So we can put it
below and the order here doesn't really
matter, but as long as you have it on
before you create your model.
Just say storeSchema.statics.getTopStores.
And that's = function,
proper function because we're going to
need this in just a second.
Open that up. Now, from that, we are going
to return this .aggregate and you pass it
in array. So what that will do is, again,
aggregate is like a query function.
It's much like .find, except we can do
much more complex stuff inside of it.
And by returning that, that means it's
going to return the promise so that we can
await the result of getTopStores and put
it into our actual variable there.
So that's why we have that. Now, I have...
I'm going to paste in some things that we
need to do here, because I want to like
get an idea of what we're doing beforehand
rather than just blindly
following the typing.
So paste this in. First what we want to do
is look up stores and populate their
reviews.
Okay, so first thing first, is that we
can't actually use our virtual reviews
here because this virtual reviews is a
Mongoose-specific thing and this aggregate
is not Mongoose-specific, it just passes
it right through to MongoDB.
So sort of a downside to some of these
convenience methods in Mongoose is that
you can't use them every possible place
because if you're doing something like
aggregate, it doesn't know about...this is
a lower level MongoDB function,
it doesn't know about these higher-level
Mongoose things, it's just MongoDB.
So we need to do something similar to what
we did here with our virtual but we need
to look up the stores. Then once we have a
list of stores which each store has their
reviews populated, we want to filter for
stores that only have two or more reviews,
right? So we first need to get the stores,
then populate the reviews, then figure out
if they have two or more reviews because
we don't want to show stores that have one
review. Then we want to add a new field
called average reviews because we don't
know what the average review is of each
store and that's something that needs to
be calculated on the fly, and that's
exactly what aggregation is for.
Finally, we want to sort by our new field,
highest reviews first.
So we want to put the people at the...
the highest review at the top. And then,
finally, if we have more than 10,
we'll limit it to actually having 10.
So you see sort of what an aggregation is
for, many steps of a complex query.
So first thing first, each one of these
steps is going to be an object.
So first of all, what we're going to do is
called a lookup and a lookup will populate
a field that is sort of like our virtuals.
So we want to look up from reviews, and
I'll talk about that in a second. Our
localField is going to be the id.
Our foreignField is store, just like we
did down here. And we're going to say as:
reviews, and that's what the
actual field is going to be called.
So that's pretty much the same thing here,
we made a field called reviews where you
have a foreignField and a localField.
The only difference here is that our from
is reviews, and down we did ref =
Reviews. And this, like,
took me the longest time to figure out. I
was like, "Where is this coming from?" I
was looking at all these examples and I'm
like, "I don't understand," like this is
nowhere in my actual review model. But
what actually happens is that MongoDB will
lower-case it and put an S on the end for
you. So it will take your model name,
which is Review, and it will lower-
case it and add an S onto the end.
So just so you know that, that's something
that tripped me up for a while,
the comma, that's the first thing.
Actually, we can sort of like follow along
as we're doing this.
So let's save that so far and let's go...
oh, I have a bit of an error here,
our lookup needs to be an object in
itself. This stuff sometimes gets a little
bit hairy. If it's looking a little bit
complicated for you, you can put it on its
own line where the lookup has its own
values being pulled in but I can put it on
its own line. So we have two objects, the
first one being the aggregation line, and
then we lookup and then we pass it a
second object for the lookup.
So give that a save, we'll go back to
our storeController here.
And instead of rendering, let's just do a
JSON so we can see if our stores are
working. There we go, now what we have
here is we've got a ton of data being
passed back. Well, we have a list of all
of our stores and each store has a Reviews
field which has a list of all the reviews
for that specific store,
right? And that's exactly what this is,
as... I could say as: WESISCOOL.
And now the field is actually called
WESISCOOL because I did it like that.
So that's how we name what the field is,
this is where we get it from,
Review. And then this is how we link the
two. So what we did there is we took two
separate documents, our store documents
and our reviews documents, and we merged
them together.
Now what we want to do is take this data
and whittle it down a little bit because
we don't want everything, we just want to
filter for items that only have two or
more reviews. So we're going to use a
match in the next one. So make sure you
put a comma after that last one,
$match. So out of this last one,
we're piping it in here and we're going to
whittle it down by matching,
which is an object, only ones that have a
reviews.1 and another object here,
we're going to say $exists: true. So,
woo, what? So we're going to match
documents where reviews.1, this is
how you access things that are index-based
in MongoDB, so reviews.0 would be the
first thing, reviews.1.
I know we don't have that in JavaScript,
but that's how we do it in MongoDB.
So we want to say it like where the second
item in reviews exists is true, and what
that will do is that'll just whittle it
down. So places that only have one review
will be totally taken out of it. So here,
this one has absolutely no reviews.
Most of them actually have no reviews,
we'll look at populating some extra data
in just a second. So give that a save, and
now I've only got this one store coming
back because that's all the actual data we
have. So we need to pause this for just a
second because we need more data.
And remember, we had this file here in our
data folder called load-sample-data.
What we can do now is we can go back and
load in, uncomment, these one,
two, three, and four, sorry, at the top,
there's a fourth one. So uncomment those
four things we commented out previously,
and let's go back to our terminal here.
Kill it, and we're going to run the
script, well, let's look at our
package.json.
We're going to run the script, blow it
all the way, because that's going to
delete all of our current stores and load
into new ones. So, npm run blowitallaway.
And that deleted all of
our data. So now we should have no actual
data, go back to MongoDB and refresh this.
There are no reviews, there are no stores,
there are no users. Then we can run our
data, which is called sample,
npm run sample.
That loaded a whole bunch
of data in for us, going to clear it out.
npm start, once more.
And now if I refresh this page, we're
getting all kinds of data coming back and
you can also see if you go to the actual
website, we got all of our stores back,
and then each of our stores should now
have a bunch of, here we go,
bunch of reviews being popped up in the
bottom as we see it there.
Good, so we have some data. Let's go back
to that end point, which is /top.
Let's keep working on our aggregation
here in store.js. We want to add a new
field for the average rating. So that's
like we don't have an actual average
rating just yet.
In order for us to sort by the
average rating, that field needs to be
correct, that field needs to be created
first. So give yourselves an object here,
and we are going to use the $project and
what is $project? $project means,
essentially, like, add a
field to the actual one.
There's a little bit of
a downside to this,
and I'll explain that in just a second. So
we are going to $project and this is going
to be an object itself. Put it on its own
line here, and we're going to $project an
average rating property, and the value of
that is going to be set to the average
$avg of $reviews.rating. So what it's
saying here is that, create a new field
called averageRating and set the value of
that to be the average of each of the
review's rating field, and it's going to
do the actual math for us.
The same we also have some as we have all
these operators that will do math against
fields.
And the dollar sign means that it is a
field from the data being piped in,
in our case, it's being piped in from our
match. So if I give that a refresh,
we should see averageRating show up now.
There we go, we've got averageRating
five, one, three, four, two, three, but
what happened to the rest of our data?
Now, this is the weird thing about
aggregations, is currently I'm actually
running MongoDB 3.2 in mLab. Here I've got
my mLab open and I was just showing you
here when you create a new sandbox, at
least when I'm recording this,
I don't have a MongoDB version 3.4. And
version 3.4 will just have this thing
called $addField, and then that's all you
need. And it's going to take your existing
document and just add a new field to it,
right? But with MongoDB 3.2,
if you're on that version, and the way you
can you can tell what version you're on is
you can always go to your MongoDB Compass
and it will tell you what version of
MongoDB you're on. See, 3.2.1.2. So what
can we do about this? Well, we can either
upgrade MongoDB 3.4, or if you're on mLab
and you don't have that option just yet,
or maybe it is by the time
you're watching this, we have to go back
to $project. And you have to add all the
fields back in that you explicitly want.
So that's fine, because we only need a
couple of pieces here. We need the photo,
we need the name, we need the reviews, or
at least the count of the reviews,
and that's it.
So we can do that, no problem. We'll say
photo = and here you can take
the $$ROOT variable, which is
going to be...that's going to be the equal
to the original document.photo,
and there we go. There's our...our photo
is back, and what else do we need? We
need the name and we need the reviews and
we need the reviews. And there we go,
we've got our...id always comes with you,
the name, the photo, a list of
reviews, and our average rating.
So we just sort of like created our own
new document, and that's exactly what
aggregations are for. So we've got that up
and running. Next we'll need to sort it by
our new field. So, again, put
a comma after the last one,
give yourself a new object, and we are
going to sort based on what? Well,
it's going to be averageRating. Why?
Because that's our last one. And then you
either tell a -1 or a 1.
So we want -1
because we want to go
highest to lowest. Now, at the top, our
averageRating is five right here,
go all the way to the bottom. Our
averageRating is 1.6. So we've got those,
and then finally, limit this to at most
10. Why? Because how many items are coming
back? We've got one, two, three, four.
We've got a lot, 15 or so.
So we want to limit it to at most 10.
So, again, we'll pipe it into our next
operator, $limit: 10. That one luckily
doesn't have a nested object in it.
Now we're getting 10 back, you
can test that by make it 1.
And you see, you only get one back. So
this will give us at least or at the most
10. Good, so that...woo, that was a
massive aggregation that we have used
here.
We had to do some weird stuff around
$project, but if you are on MongoDB
3.4, you can just use addField and not
have to do any of these extra three lines
of code here.
Good, then we'll go back into our
storeController and we don't actually
want to JSON it, we want to render out
TopStores, which we're going to make a new
view for it, call it topStores.pug,
capital S. And we'll give ourselves our
.inner, we will give ourselves h2.
You'll say Top,
how many stores?
Well, we can interpellate this data here,
we just take the number of stores and get
the length, stores. Get that to
save. Now when we refresh this page,
we see top 10 stores, and if we were to
change the amount of stores that were
coming back, limit it to 5, that should
just update this to top 5 stores.
Beautiful! And that will also work if you
only actually have six stores in your
database, it's only going to give you six.
So we have our top stores, then we need to
actually code up a table here. So
table.table, thead. It's been years
since I've coded a table. And we need a
photo, a ranking, a name,
a number of reviews, and an average
rating. Okay, all those don't need to all
be on their own line. And each of them is
going to be a td. Then we can loop over
each of the stores here,
so each store, i in stores.
So in this case, we also need the index,
so we say store, i, and that's going to
give us one, two, three, four, five. And
for each of those we need a table row and
then a td inside of that. We need
an image with a width of 200,
a source of, then we'll do our uploads/.
You could probably make a nice
little helper. We've coded this whole
uploads thing a couple times.
It'd be nice to have a helper function to
do this for us rather than have to code it
every single time in our template.
store.photo or store.png.
And then the alt of that will be the
store.name. So let's give that a save,
refresh. We've got our top 10 stores being
piped in here, and if you inspect it,
it's going to alt="Charred" and it's
giving our actual photo, good.
So we've got that up and running. Now feel
free to pause the video and just do the
rest yourself. It's simply just
templating out some data.
td is going to be =, our td will
have the i, but if we just use i, it's
going to actually start at zero.
It's ranking zero and we
actually want it to start at
one. We'll index it by one. We have a td,
inside of that, we have an a. And
by the way, if you do this, like td:,
you're able to do it on one line,
otherwise, you have to
indent it like that.
So td: a, the href is going to be
= /stores/store.slug. Again,
you could also make that a nice little
helper function that would generate the
URL given the store.slug. And then inside
of that, we'll have a store.name.
Looking good, looking good. Finally, we
have a td, which is going to have the
store.averageRating inside of it.
That's not going to do much for us,
but we can see, looks good. But the
problem is that when we only have values
that look like this. So what we need to do
is to round it in so that we can get
something like 4.3 out of 5. So how do we
do that? Well, wrap that whole thing in
Math.round. Multiply that by 10, then
divide it by 10, and what will that give
us? There we go, 4.3. So what we did was
we just bumped up the decimal,
rounded it, then bumped down the decimal,
and we get a nice little quick number.
And then we can just put an out-of-five on
the end to just show us what we've got.
Good, so we have all this up and running,
click it. We probably should wrap our
img tag in a link as well, so we'll do
td: a(href from the other one.
Oh, no! What did I do? Maybe I can't mix
these. So td, a, img all nested inside,
there we go. Now when I click on one of
them...oh, no! It doesn't put in the
store.slug. Oh, why is that?
When you click on
them we get undefined because we didn't
ask for the store.slug when we made our
aggregation. Remember,
we had this problem here? We also need to
ask for the slug value, then I click
on one.
Now I got the French, oh, and finally,
I am messing up all over the place.
I think it's S and S. Again,
if I had a nice little helper function for
that, I wouldn't screw that up every
single time that I actually wrote it.
There we go, we actually get to
see what charred looks like. Good,
so that is our actual aggregation for the
top stores. Really, the last thing that we
want to do here is also when somebody
views a store, we want to show them how
many reviews are on that specific store.
If we open up our storeCard.pug
and we're looking for something like
this, this is the answer here.
If it has four views, I want it to show
a little four right beside it, etc., etc.
So if we open up our storeCard.pug,
and we do a quick dump of our store,
you'll see that each of the stores
actually doesn't have a reviews.
It's set to null and the reason is because
we have not yet called populate on every
single time that we want it. So if we go
back to our storeController and look for
getStores, and you see that we have
Store.find, and we could call it .populate
on the end, and we ask for
reviews field to be populated.
Now, if I refresh that, all the reviews
are being populated, no problem.
You see, bok, bok, bok, all of these
things. But I don't feel like doing that
every single time that I need it, so we
could use our autopopulate function that
we've done for our other one.
So we'll go into our store.js, we will
find...make a function called
autopopulate.
Next, I'm going to say this.populate. What
do we want to populate?
The reviews, next. And then we take
our schema and we run our hooks, so we'll
say storeSchema.pre('find'. We're going to
autopopulate. And then we also want to do,
we need to do findOne. And that means
whenever I query a store, it should also
populate all of the reviews for that
store. Here we go, showing up just fine,
go back to our storeCard here, you can get
rid of that dump. And we'll go down here.
We have our storeCard heart, we have our
storeCard edit. Let's do another one down
here. We'll say if store.reviews,
store__action.store__action--count.
I'm going to do another one of those,
h.icon. We look for the review
icon, and below that, we'll just give
ourselves the span with the
store.reviews.length. So the number of
reviews that are specifically on that.
So give that a refresh, there we go, and
now we see the number of reviews popping
up for every single one of our reviews.
And if we go to our Tags page,
you can click on any of the tags, you see
how that's always getting populated
regardless of what query you were doing?
We didn't have to update six or seven
queries, it's just going to be
autopopulated every single time.
♪ [music] ♪